Homework 3 (100 Points)

In this homework, we will use the Diabetes dataset and Cancer dataset. (Note: You can use the built-in function from ML libraries for gradient descent, training, and validation.)

Problem 1 (20 points)

Using the diabetes dataset, build a logistic regression binary classifier for positive diabetes. Please use 80% and 20% split between training and evaluation (test). Make sure to perform proper scaling and standardization before your training. Report the classification accuracy over iterations. Also, report your results, including accuracy, precision, and recall, FI score. At the end, plot the confusion matrix representing your binary classifier. 

Problem 2 (20pts):

a. Use the cancer dataset to build a logistic regression model to classify the type of cancer (Malignant vs. benign). First, create a logistic regression that takes all 30 input features for classification. Please use 80% and 20% split between training and evaluation (test). Make sure to perform proper scaling and standardization before your training. Report your classification accuracy over iterations. Also, report your results, including accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. At the end, plot the confusion matrix representing your binary classifier. 

b. How about adding a weight penalty here, considering the number of parameters? Add the weight penalty repeat the training, and report the results.

Problem 3 (20pts):

Use the cancer dataset to build a naive Bayesian model to classify the type of cancer (Malignant vs. benign). Use 80% and 20% split between training and evaluation (test). Report your classification accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. Explain and elaborate on your results. Can you compare your results against the logistic regression classifier you did in Problem 2.

Problem 4 (20pts):

Use the cancer dataset to build a logistic regression model to classify the type of cancer (Malignant vs. benign). Use the PCA feature extraction for your training. Perform N number of independent training (N=1, …, K). Identify the optimum number of K, principal components that achieve the highest classification accuracy. Report your classification accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score over a different number of Ks. Explain and elaborate on your results and compare them against problems 2 and 3.

Problem 5 (20pts):

Can you repeat problem 4? This time, replace the logistic regression classifier with the Bayes classifier. Report your results (classification accuracy, precision, recall and F1 score). Compare your results against problems 2, 3 and 4.
